Ethics Questions

1. Brin and Page were worried that search companies that were paid by advertisers would be inclined to modify their
ranking of results to give more favorable treatment to those advertisers? Do you believe this is a concern and if so,
what approach (at a high-level) might you suggest to address it?

This is a concern because it would ultimately effect the user. The information that a user may be searching for to
solve their problem may be freely available, but if the first thing that they see is a website that advertises a paid
solution that costs money (the advertiser's product), then this creates an unbalanced experience for the user. One
thing that I find helpful when searching online is how Google informs me that a particular result, usually one that
is towards the top of the ranking list, is sponsored. By providing the user with this information, they can make
the choice as to whether they would like to continue to learn more about what is being advertised on the website, or
if they would rather click on a website that was ranked high on the list because it more closely matched what the user
was searching for.



2. In this excerpt, Brin and Page express concerns about the negative impacts of advertising on search engine quality
and results. Their main observation is that monetary incentives are likely to bias search engine results such that
they are less likely to provide the most relevant content to the searcher. Bias towards advertisers is not the only
potential problem with search results, however. Based on our discussion in lecture, how might you address these
problems? How could you alter or extend your Bajillion search engine to deliver multiple perspectives to the same
searcher? To deliver personalized results? To be more transparent about why it delivers the results it does? Which of
these goals is most important and why?

In class we learned that the term 'relevant' is a loaded term that should be closely considered as it is used in
ranking results for a search request. An important question to consider is who is this information most relevant to
and who gets to decide that one website is more relevant to the user than another one. The answer to this question has
significant implications, and I would extend the Bajillion search engine to allow the user to mark certain results as
not relevant to them, that way each user gets a personalized result as the engine learns from and adapts to the user's
needs. This would give the user the option of having a much more customized experience that is tailored to what they
deem as most relevant to them, and not what someone else had decided is most relevant to them. 